Contact
Dubai, UAE
                                       Ferdoush Saleheen, PhD,
ferdoushsaleheen@gmail.com
                                       FCILT
www.linkedin.com/in/
                                       Head of Maritime Logistics & SCM Department
ferdoushsaleheen (LinkedIn)
                                       United Arab Emirates

Top Skills
                                       Summary
Research and Development (R&D)
Research Skills                        Dr. Ferdoush Saleheen brings over 20 years of experience combined
Design Research                        in industry and academia in Supply Chain Management (SCM) and
                                       Logistics in Asia and Gulf.
Certifications
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree    He has led successful SCM transformations at major organizations
equivalency                            such as Meena Bazar Retail Chain, Butterfly Marketing Ltd. (LG
Chartered Fellow                       Bangladesh Operations), Akij Food and Beverage Ltd., and Partex
L3 Assessing Vocational
                                       Star Group, some of the largest and most respected companies in
Assessment
                                       Bangladesh

Publications
                                       ln the corporate, he worked more than 15+ years across the FMCG,
Supply chain performance
measurement for manufacturing          Retail, and Agribusiness industries, having served as a C-suite
industry: A study during pandemic      executive overseeing multi-million-dollar operations and leading
(Covid-19)
                                       complex SCM transformations.
IT Operations in Retail Banking: A
Case Study
Demand and supply planning in retail   Dr. Saleheen has more than 10+ years of academic and research
operations                             experience as an Assistant Professor of SCM where he taught MBA
Challenges of Warehouse                and Executive MBA programs.
Operations: A Case Study in Retail
Supermarket
                                       He holds a PhD in Operations Management, specializing in SCM
                                       from Universiti Utara Malaysia (UUM), a prestigious AACSB-
                                       accredited institution ranked among the top 482 universities globally
                                       by QS in 2024. Additionally, he has an MS in Logistics from the
                                       University of Texas at Arlington, USA, and an MBA from Victoria
                                       University, Australia.


                                       Dr. Saleheen is also a Chartered Fellow of The Chartered Institute of
                                       Logistics and Transport (CILT), International, UK.


                                       Currently he is working at Sharjah Maritime Academy as an
                                       Assistant Professor. SMA is a University under the Government
                                       of Sharjah which aims to provide Bachelor's, Master's and
                                                                     Page 1 of 5
Diploma degree programs in Maritime Logistics and Supply Chain
Management. Prior to that he served at the Higher Colleges of
Technology (HCT), the UAE’s largest government academic
institution which is AACSB accredited.


His expertise extends to teaching, curriculum development,
corporate training, and conducting high-quality research, with
over 30 research papers published in peer-reviewed journals and
conference proceedings, including Scopus, Web of Science, and
API US. He also serves on the editorial boards of the International
Journal of Supply Chain Management (IJSCM), UK, and the
International Supply Chain Technology Journal (ISCTJ), USA.


He serves as a series co-editor for the book series Sustainable
Industry-Focused Supply Chain Management which will be published
by the Taylor & Francis Group, CRC Press, USA


In the corporate sphere, Dr. Saleheen has held senior leadership
roles, managing end-to-end SCM functions in multinational and
national conglomerates within the FMCG, Household Electronics,
Agribusiness, and Retail sectors.



Experience
Sharjah Maritime Academy
1 year 6 months

Head of Maritime Logistics & SCM Department
April 2026 - Present (5 months)
Sharjah Emirate, United Arab Emirates


Academic Program Chair, MS Maritime Operations Management
April 2026 - Present (5 months)
Khor Fakkan


Assistant Professor (Logistics and SCM)
March 2025 - Present (1 year 6 months)
Khor Fakkan, Sharjah Emirate, United Arab Emirates

The Sharjah Maritime Academy (SMA) is a University under the Government
of Sharjah. The Department of Maritime Logistics and Supply Chain



                                  Page 2 of 5
Management (MLSCM) aims to provide Master's, Bachelor's, and Diploma
degree program in Maritime Logistics and Supply Chain Management.


In addition to my current responsibility, I am involved to the following
committees for the Maritime Logistics and Supply Chain Management
(MLSCM) Department :


Strategy and Risk Champion (MLSCM Department)
Industry Advisory Board Member
Learning and Teaching Committee Member


IEOM Society International
Reviewer – Technical Conference & Journal Papers
July 2025 - Present (1 year 2 months)
Michigan, United States

Serve as a Reviewer for Technical Papers and provide Expert Feedback for
Journal and Conference


Taylor & Francis Group
Series Co Editor, CRP Press Series Entitled - Sustainable Industry
Focused Supply Chain Management
October 2024 - Present (1 year 11 months)
Boca Raton, Florida, United States

I serve as Series Co Editor to publish "Sustainable Industry Focused Supply
Chain Management" by the CRP Press, Taylor & Francis Group USA. The
Chief Editor of the series of the book is Professor Dr. Md Mamun Habib and
other Co Editor Professor Dr. Erick C . Jones. Sr.


International Supply Chain Technology Journal
Editorial Board Member
May 2023 - Present (3 years 4 months)
Texas, United States


International Journal of Supply Chain Management (IJSCM)
Editorial Board Member
January 2023 - Present (3 years 8 months)
United Kingdom


Higher Colleges of Technology
2 years 7 months

Academic Program Chair (APC)
                                    Page 3 of 5
October 2024 - February 2025 (5 months)
Fujairah Emirate, United Arab Emirates


Faculty of Logistics & SCM
August 2022 - February 2025 (2 years 7 months)
Fujairah Emirate, United Arab Emirates

Federal government employee in education sector in the United Arab Emirates
working at Higher Colleges of Technology (HCT). Teaching business,
Logistics and Supply Chain Management. HCT is accredited by AACSB, and is
listed amongst 6% business schools worldwide.

System wide Course Team Leader (SCTL)
August 2022 - February 2025 (2 years 7 months)
United Arab Emirates


BRAC University
Assistant Professor of SCM (Adjunct)
August 2014 - August 2022 (8 years 1 month)
Dhaka, Bangladesh

Taught MS in Procurement and Supply Management


Partex Star Group (Danish)
Chief of Supply Chain (FMCG Business)
January 2022 - July 2022 (7 months)
Dhaka, Bangladesh

Responsible for overall Group at Partex Star Group Complex 2 for Food,
Beverage, Tissue Paper, Condensed Milk, and Steel businesses reporting to
the Managing Director. Danish is the largest Food and Beverage company in
Bangladesh


AKIJ FOOD & BEVARAGE LIMITED (AFBL)
Chief Supply Chain Officer (FMCG Business)
April 2020 - July 2021 (1 year 4 months)
Dhaka, Bangladesh

Akij Food and Beverage is the largest beverage, and food company in
Bangladesh.


Kazi Farms Limited
Head of Supply Chain Management (Poultry & Feed Business)
November 2018 - December 2019 (1 year 2 months)
Dhaka, Bangladesh


                                  Page 4 of 5
Kazi Farms is the largest integrated poultry and feed mill company in
Bangladesh


Butterfly Group
Head of Supply Chain Management (LG Bangladesh Electronics
Business)
September 2016 - October 2018 (2 years 2 months)
Dhaka, Bangladesh

Butterfly Group represents - LG Bangladesh operations in Bangladesh with
integrated manufacturing facilities of Air-conditioner, Refrigerator, and LED TV.


Desh Group of Companies
Chief Business Officer (Buhler Bangladesh Operations)
April 2015 - August 2016 (1 year 5 months)
Desh Group represents BUHLER operations in Bangladesh. BUHLER is a
Switzerland based company which is the largest manufacturer of Rice Mills,
Flour Mills and Chocolate Mills


Gemcon Group
General Manager Supply Chain (Retail Business - Meena Bazar)
February 2012 - March 2015 (3 years 2 months)
Dhaka, Bangladesh

Meena Bazar is the largest retail chain in Bangladesh.




Education
The University of Texas at Arlington
MS Logistics , Department of Industrial, Manufacturing, and Systems
Engineering · (August 2008 - May 2010)


Universiti Utara Malaysia
Doctor of Philosophy - PhD, Operations Management specialized in Supply
Chain Management · (September 2014 - March 2021)


Victoria University
MBA, Business Administration and Management, General · (January
2007 - May 2008)


North South University
BBA, Marketing & Management · (1998 - 2002)

                                   Page 5 of 5
